{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff1\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0 Helvetica;}}\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440\sectd\titlepg
\pard\li0\ri0\fi0\f1\fs24
{\f1\fs24\b Reference Type: }{\f1\fs24  Journal Article\par }
\pard\li720\ri0\fi-720\f1\fs24
{\f1\fs24\b Record Number: }{\f1\fs24 57\par }
{\f1\fs24\b Author:}{\f1\fs24  Hu, Mengyao, Kirlin, John A, West, Brady, He, Wen
yi, Ong, Ai Rene, Zhang, Shiyu and Zhang, Xingyou\par }
{\f1\fs24\b Year:}{\f1\fs24  2019\par }
{\f1\fs24\b Title:}{\f1\fs24  Estimation of Underreporting in Diary Surveys: An 
Application using the National Household Food Acquisition and Purchase Survey\par }
\pard\li0\ri0\fi0\f1\fs24
{\f1\fs24\b Journal:}{\f1\fs24  Journal of Survey Statistics and Methodology\par }
\pard\li720\ri0\fi-720\f1\fs24
{\f1\fs24\b Short Title:}{\f1\fs24  Estimation of Underreporting in Diary Survey
s: An Application using the National Household Food Acquisition and Purchase Sur
vey\par }
{\f1\fs24\b Keywords:}{\f1\fs24  FoodAPS\par }
\pard\li0\ri0\fi0\f1\fs24
{\f1\fs24 \par }
\pard\li720\ri0\fi-720\f1\fs24
{\f1\fs24\b Abstract:}{\f1\fs24  Diary surveys are used to collect data on a var
iety of topics, including health, time use,\par }
{\f1\fs24 nutrition and expenditures. The U.S. National Household Food Acquisiti
on and Purchase Survey\par }
\pard\li0\ri0\fi0\f1\fs24
{\f1\fs24 (FoodAPS) is a nationally representative diary survey, providing an im
portant data source for\par }
{\f1\fs24 decision makers to design policies and programs for promoting healthy 
lifestyles. Unfortunately,\par }
\pard\li720\ri0\fi-720\f1\fs24
{\f1\fs24 a multi-day diary survey like the FoodAPS can be subject to various su
rvey errors, especially\par }
{\f1\fs24 item nonresponse error occurring at the day level. The FoodAPS public-
use data set provides\par }
{\f1\fs24 survey weights that adjust only for unit nonresponse. Due to the lack 
of day-level weights (which\par }
\pard\li0\ri0\fi0\f1\fs24
{\f1\fs24 could possibly adjust for the item nonresponse that arises from refusa
ls on particular days), the\par }
\pard\li720\ri0\fi-720\f1\fs24
{\f1\fs24 adjustments for unit nonresponse are unlikely to correct any bias in e
stimates arising from\par }
\pard\li0\ri0\fi0\f1\fs24
{\f1\fs24 households that initially agree to participate in FoodAPS, but then fa
il to report on particular\par }
\pard\li720\ri0\fi-720\f1\fs24
{\f1\fs24 days. This paper develops a general methodology for estimating the ext
ent of underreporting due\par }
\pard\li0\ri0\fi0\f1\fs24
{\f1\fs24 to this type of item nonresponse errors in diary surveys, using FoodAP
S as a case study. We\par }
{\f1\fs24 describe a methodology combining bootstrap replicate sampling for comp
lex samples and\par }
{\f1\fs24 imputation based on a Heckman selection model to predict food expendit
ures for person-days\par }
{\f1\fs24 with missing expenditures. We estimated the item nonresponse error by 
comparing weighted\par }
{\f1\fs24 estimates according to 1) only reported expenditures and 2) both repor
ted expenditures and\par }
{\f1\fs24 predictions for missing values. Results indicate that ignoring the mis
sing data would lead to\par }
\pard\li720\ri0\fi-720\f1\fs24
{\f1\fs24 consistent over-estimation of the mean expenditures and events per per
son per day and underestimation\par }
{\f1\fs24 of the total expenditures and events. Our study suggests that the hous
ehold-level\par }
{\f1\fs24 weights which generally account for unit nonresponse may not be entire
ly sufficient for\par }
{\f1\fs24 addressing the nonresponse occurring at the day level in diary surveys
, and proper imputation\par }
{\f1\fs24 methods will be important for estimating the size of the underreportin
g.\par }
{\f1\fs24\b 'File' Attachments:}{\f1\fs24  internal-pdf://0963461351/FoodAPS und
erreporting 2nd revision proof.pdf\par }
\pard\li0\ri0\fi0\f1\fs24
{\f1\fs24 \par }
{\f1\fs24 \par }}